BiteFinder chatbot — code TLDR

Purpose
Collect and save user profiles and preferences. Restaurant searches and
recommendations belong to later project components.

The five main files
main.py          Coordinates account selection, sessions, and approved updates.
io_manager.py    Owns terminal questions, validation feedback, and confirmations.
ai_manager.py    Interprets input with OpenRouter and rotates configured API keys.
data_manager.py  Reads/writes JSON accounts, finds emails, and handles migration.
logic_manager.py Applies profile rules, travel conversions, and typo suggestions.

Supporting folders
sources/  Authoritative schema, cuisine vocabulary, questions, and AI prompts.
support/  Environment loading, SMTP delivery, and debug logging utilities.
docs/     This explanation and the original project reference documents.

Typical flow
1. Sign up with email and username, or resume using email.
2. Verify email unless SMTP_BYPASS=true; bypass does not mark email verified.
3. Answer the preference questions. AI_BYPASS=true uses fixed CLI questions.
4. Validate input and confirm suggestions or conflicting cuisine choices.
5. Apply the approved changes and atomically save the account's profile.
6. /logout returns to account selection; /quit saves and exits.

Saved data
data/users.json stores accounts keyed by userID; username is outside preferences.
data/profile_state.json stores verification and pending migration review state.
New accounts start empty; they cannot import another user's legacy profile.
Travel uses an approximate 1 km = 20 minutes conversion and saves both values.
Dietary values are halal, vegan, both, or [] for none.
Cuisines use the agreed vocabulary in sources/profile_schema.py.
The AI cannot bypass schema validation or change account identity fields.

Logs
logs/bitefinder.log is relative to the project folder, not your shell location.
It is created when the first event is logged. Set DEBUG=true in .env to
also display operational events on stderr. Lines include time, level, event,
and message. Travel updates log both distance and time. Raw user messages,
verification codes, and API keys must not be passed to the logger.

Coding conventions
Procedural functions, four-space indentation, PEP 8 formatting, and descriptive
names. Application statements have no more than four indentation levels.
Small helpers and early returns reduce else chains. For example:

    def handle_action(action):
        if action is None:
            return
        process_action(action)

This is an illustrative pattern, not a standalone application function.
Wrapped expressions may use continuation indentation; they do not add branches.

Run and check formatting
python main.py
python -m pycodestyle *.py sources support

Configure model, API keys, and bypass flags in .env; see .env.example.
Old-schema data requires the explicit python -c "from main import run_migration; run_migration()" command, which
backs up files first. Accounts may need to review migrated answers.
